A TEMPLATE FOR THE arxiv STYLE
A PREPRINT
David S. Hippocampus∗
Department of Computer Science
Cranberry-Lemon University
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
hippo@cs.cranberry-lemon.edu
Elias D. Striatum
Department of Electrical Engineering
Mount-Sheikh University
Santa Narimana, Levand
stariate@ee.mount-sheikh.edu
January 29, 2019
ABSTRACT
This electronic document is a live template. The
various components of your paper [title, text, heads, etc.] are
already defined on the style sheet, as illustrated by the portions
given in this document.
I. INTRODUCTION
This template, modified in MS Word 2003 and saved as
Word 97-2003 & 6.0/95 RTF for the PC, provides authors
with most of the formatting specifications needed for prepar-
ing electronic versions of their papers. All standard paper
components have been specified for three reasons: (1) ease of
use when formatting individual papers, (2) automatic compli-
ance to electronic requirements that facilitate the concurrent
or later production of electronic products, and (3) confor-
mity of style throughout a conference proceedings. Margins,
column widths, line spacing, and type styles are built-in;
examples of the type styles are provided throughout this
document and are identified in italic type, within parentheses,
following the example. Some components, such as multi-
leveled equations, graphics, and tables are not prescribed,
although the various table text styles are provided. The
formatter will need to create these components, incorporating
the applicable criteria that follow.
II. PROCEDURE FOR PAPER SUBMISSION
A. Selecting a Template (Heading 2)
First, confirm that you have the correct template for your
paper size. This template has been tailored for output on the
US-letter paper size. Please do not use it for A4 paper since
the margin requirements for A4 papers may be different from
Letter paper size.
B. Maintaining the Integrity of the Specifications
The template is used to format your paper and style the
text. All margins, column widths, line spaces, and text fonts
are prescribed; please do not alter them. You may note
peculiarities. For example, the head margin in this template
measures proportionately more than is customary. This mea-
surement and others are deliberate, using specifications that
anticipate your paper as one part of the entire proceedings,
and not as an independent document. Please do not revise
any of the current designations
*This work was not supported by any organization
1H. Kwakernaak is with Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Mathematics
and Computer Science, University of Twente, 7500 AE Enschede, The
Netherlands h.kwakernaak at papercept.net
2P. Misra is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Wright State
University, Dayton, OH 45435, USA p.misra at ieee.org
III. MATH
Before you begin to format your paper, first write and
save the content as a separate text file. Keep your text and
graphic files separate until after the text has been formatted
and styled. Do not use hard tabs, and limit use of hard returns
to only one return at the end of a paragraph. Do not add any
kind of pagination anywhere in the paper. Do not number
text heads-the template will do that for you.
Finally, complete content and organizational editing before
formatting. Please take note of the following items when
proofreading spelling and grammar:
A. Abbreviations and Acronyms
Define abbreviations and acronyms the first time they are
used in the text, even after they have been defined in the
abstract. Abbreviations such as IEEE, SI, MKS, CGS, sc, dc,
and rms do not have to be defined. Do not use abbreviations
in the title or heads unless they are unavoidable.
B. Units
• Use either SI (MKS) or CGS as primary units. (SI
units are encouraged.) English units may be used as
secondary units (in parentheses). An exception would
be the use of English units as identifiers in trade, such
as 3.5-inch disk drive.
• Avoid combining SI and CGS units, such as current
in amperes and magnetic field in oersteds. This often
leads to confusion because equations do not balance
dimensionally. If you must use mixed units, clearly state
the units for each quantity that you use in an equation.
• Do not mix complete spellings and abbreviations of
units: Wb/m2 or webers per square meter, not we-
bers/m2. Spell out units when they appear in text: . . .
a few henries, not . . . a few H.
• Use a zero before decimal points: 0.25, not .25. Use
cm3, not cc. (bullet list)
C. Equations
The equations are an exception to the prescribed specifi-
cations of this template. You will need to determine whether
or not your equation should be typed using either the Times
New Roman or the Symbol font (please no other font).
To create multileveled equations, it may be necessary to
treat the equation as a graphic and insert it into the text
after your paper is styled. Number equations consecutively.
Equation numbers, within parentheses, are to position flush
right, as in (1), using a right tab stop. To make your equations
more compact, you may use the solidus ( / ), the exp
function, or appropriate exponents. Italicize Roman symbols
for quantities and variables, but not Greek symbols. Use a
long dash rather than a hyphen for a minus sign. Punctuate
equations with commas or periods when they are part of a
sentence, as in
α+ β = χ (1)
Note that the equation is centered using a center tab stop.
Be sure that the symbols in your equation have been defined
before or immediately following the equation. Use (1), not
Eq. (1) or equation (1), except at the beginning of a sentence:
Equation (1) is . . .
D. Some Common Mistakes
• The word data is plural, not singular.
• The subscript for the permeability of vacuum ?0, and
other common scientific constants, is zero with subscript
formatting, not a lowercase letter o.
• In American English, commas, semi-/colons, periods,
question and exclamation marks are located within
quotation marks only when a complete thought or name
is cited, such as a title or full quotation. When quotation
marks are used, instead of a bold or italic typeface, to
highlight a word or phrase, punctuation should appear
outside of the quotation marks. A parenthetical phrase
or statement at the end of a sentence is punctuated
outside of the closing parenthesis (like this). (A paren-
thetical sentence is punctuated within the parentheses.)
• A graph within a graph is an inset, not an insert. The
word alternatively is preferred to the word alternately
(unless you really mean something that alternates).
• Do not use the word essentially to mean approximately
or effectively.
• In your paper title, if the words that uses can accurately
replace the word using, capitalize the u; if not, keep
using lower-cased.
• Be aware of the different meanings of the homophones
affect and effect, complement and compliment, discreet
and discrete, principal and principle.
• Do not confuse imply and infer.
• The prefix non is not a word; it should be joined to the
word it modifies, usually without a hyphen.
• There is no period after the et in the Latin abbreviation
et al..
• The abbreviation i.e. means that is, and the abbreviation
e.g. means for example.
IV. USING THE TEMPLATE
Use this sample document as your LaTeX source file to
create your document. Save this file as root.tex. You have to
make sure to use the cls file that came with this distribution.
If you use a different style file, you cannot expect to get
required margins. Note also that when you are creating your
out PDF file, the source file is only part of the equation.
Your TEX → PDF filter determines the output file size. Even
if you make all the specifications to output a letter file in the
source - if you filter is set to produce A4, you will only get
A4 output.
It is impossible to account for all possible situation, one
would encounter using TEX. If you are using multiple TEX
files you must make sure that the “MAIN“ source file is
called root.tex - this is particularly important if your confer-
ence is using PaperPlaza’s built in TEX to PDF conversion
tool.
A. Headings, etc
Text heads organize the topics on a relational, hierarchical
basis. For example, the paper title is the primary text head
because all subsequent material relates and elaborates on
this one topic. If there are two or more sub-topics, the next
level head (uppercase Roman numerals) should be used and,
conversely, if there are not at least two sub-topics, then no
subheads should be introduced. Styles named Heading 1,
Heading 2, Heading 3, and Heading 4 are prescribed.
B. Figures and Tables
Positioning Figures and Tables: Place figures and tables at
the top and bottom of columns. Avoid placing them in the
middle of columns. Large figures and tables may span across
both columns. Figure captions should be below the figures;
table heads should appear above the tables. Insert figures and
tables after they are cited in the text. Use the abbreviation
Fig. 1, even at the beginning of a sentence.
TABLE I
AN EXAMPLE OF A TABLE
One Two
Three Four
We suggest that you use a text box to insert a
graphic (which is ideally a 300 dpi TIFF or EPS file,
with all fonts embedded) because, in an document,
this method is somewhat more stable than directly
inserting a picture.
Fig. 1. Inductance of oscillation winding on amorphous magnetic core
versus DC bias magnetic field
Figure Labels: Use 8 point Times New Roman for Figure
labels. Use words rather than symbols or abbreviations when
writing Figure axis labels to avoid confusing the reader. As
an example, write the quantity Magnetization, or Magneti-
zation, M, not just M. If including units in the label, present
them within parentheses. Do not label axes only with units.
In the example, write Magnetization (A/m) or Magnetization
A[m(1)], not just A/m. Do not label axes with a ratio of
quantities and units. For example, write Temperature (K),
not Temperature/K.
V. CONCLUSIONS
A conclusion section is not required. Although a conclu-
sion may review the main points of the paper, do not replicate
the abstract as the conclusion. A conclusion might elaborate
on the importance of the work or suggest applications and
extensions.
APPENDIX
Appendixes should appear before the acknowledgment.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The preferred spelling of the word acknowledgment in
America is without an e after the g. Avoid the stilted
expression, One of us (R. B. G.) thanks . . . Instead, try R. B.
G. thanks. Put sponsor acknowledgments in the unnumbered
footnote on the first page.
References are important to the reader; therefore, each
citation must be complete and correct. If at all possible,
references should be commonly available publications.
REFERENCES
[1] Shin Chen, P. Munir Grant and P. M. Grant. "Synthetic structure of industrial plastics (Book style with
paper title and editor)," in Plastics, 2nd ed., vol. 3. J. Peters, Ed. New
York: McGraw-Hill, 1964, pp. 1564.
[2] S. Chen, B. Mulgrew and P. M. Grant. "Synthetic structure of industrial plastics (Book style with
paper title and editor)," in Plastics, 2nd ed., vol. 3. J. Peters, Ed. New
York: McGraw-Hill, 1964, pp. 1564.
